---
title: IMM Bioimage Informatics
categories: talks work
permalink: talks/2012/imm/
---

You can find `the slides here </files/talks/2012/lpc-imm-presentation.pdf>`__.

References
==========

Reviews
~~~~~~~

These are both very short. They give a general idea, but you should follow the
references.

1. **Luis Pedro Coelho**, Estelle Glory-Afshar, Joshua Kangas, Shannon Quinn,
   Aabid Shariff, and Robert F. Murphy; *Principles of Bioimage Informatics:
   Focus on machine learning of cell patterns* in Lecture Notes in Computer
   Science [`PDF Version </files/papers/2010/lpc-principles-2010.pdf>`__].

2. Aabid Shariff, Joshua Kangas, **Luis Pedro Coelho**, Shannon Quinn, and
   Robert F. Murphy; *Automated Image Analysis for High Content Screening and
   Analysis*, Journal Biomolecular Screening (2010) [`online version
   <http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/1087057110370894>`__]

Research Papers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. *A pixel classification system for segmenting biomedical images using
   intensity neighborhoods and dimension reduction*, by Cheng Chen  Ozolek,
   J.A.  Wei Wang  Rohde, G.K. `DOI
   <http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ISBI.2011.5872720>`__
2. **Luis Pedro Coelho**, Tao Peng, and Robert F. Murphy, *Quantifying the
   distribution of probes between subcellular locations using unsupervised
   pattern unmixing* in Bioinformatics, vol. 26(12), pp. i7-i12 [`online
   version
   <http://bioinformatics.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/content/abstract/26/12/i7>`__]
3. **Luis Pedro Coelho**, Aabid Shariff, and Robert F. Murphy;  *Nuclear
   segmentation in microscope cell images: A hand-segmented dataset and
   comparison of algorithms* ISBI 2009 [`DOI
   <http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ISBI.2009.5193098/>`__]
4. *Determining the distribution of probes between different subcellular
   locations through automated unmixing of subcellular patterns* by Tao Peng,
   Ghislain M. C. Bonamy, Estelle Glory-Afshar, Daniel R. Rines, Sumit K.
   Chanda, and Robert F. Murphy [`link
   <http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2010/01/21/0912090107>`__]
5. *Learning To Count Objects in Images* by Victor Lempitsky, Andrew Zisserman.
   `webpage <http://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/research/counting/>`__
6. Patterns of basal signaling heterogeneity can distinguish cellular
   populations with different drug sensitivities. Singh D.K., Ku C.J.,
   Wichaidit C., Steininger R.J. 3rd, Wu L.F., Altschuler S.J. Mol Syst Biol.,
   6:369, May 2010. [`online version
   <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20461076>`__]
7. Murphy, R., Velliste, M., Porreca, G.: Robust Numerical Features for
   Description and Classification of Subcellular Location Patterns in
   Fluorescence Microscope Images. Journal of VLSI Signal Processing-Systems
   for Signal, Image, and Video Technology 35, 311–321 (2003)
8. M. V. Boland, M. K. Markey and R. F. Murphy (1998) Automated Recognition of
   Patterns Characteristic of Subcellular Structures in Fluorescence Microscopy
   Images. Cytometry 33: 366-375. [`online version
   <http://murphylab.web.cmu.edu/publications/69-boland1998.pdf>`__]
9. *The Automation of Science* by Ross D. King, Jem Rowland, Stephen G. Oliver,
   Michael Young, Wayne Aubrey, Emma Byrne, Maria Liakata, Magdalena Markham,
   Pinar Pir, Larisa N. Soldatova, Andrew Sparkes, Kenneth E. Whelan and Amanda
   Clare [`link <http://www.sciencemag.org/content/324/5923/85.short>`__]
10. *An active role for machine learning in drug development* by Robert F
    Murphy Nature Chemical Biology 7, 327–330 (2011) doi:10.1038/nchembio.576
    [`online link
    <http://www.nature.com/nchembio/journal/v7/n6/full/nchembio.576.html>`__]


